{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Summary Services: \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Kubernetes is a microservices container ochestration software, it is run on google cloud kubernetes engine.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 VMs represent nodes which exist in node pools, that have the same configuration. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Master node servers run the GKE control plane. This includes the API server, Scheduler and resource controllers. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Nodes contain pods\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Pods can run mulitple tightly coupled Docker containers that have related functionality, or just one. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 You can specify number of pod replicas running a kubernetes deployment. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Kubernetes scales nodes based on load, and pod replicas. \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Autoscalling, specify minimum and maximum pod replicas \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Instances in Kubernetes:  Cluster Masters VS nodes\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 The controller manager runs services that manage Kubernetes abstract components,\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 such as deployments and replica sets.\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Applications interacting with the Kubernetes cluster make calls to the master using\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 the API server. The API server also handles intercluster interactions.\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 The scheduler is responsible for determining where to run pods, which are lowlevel\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 compute abstractions that support containers.\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 ectd is a distributed key-value store used to store state information across a cluster.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\fs24 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Nodes are instances that execute workloads. They communicate with the cluster\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 master through an agent called kubelet.\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 StatefulSets are used to designate pods as\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 stateful and assign a unique identifier to them\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs26 Ingress Controllers are needed by Ingress objects, which are objects\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 that control external access to services running in a Kubernetes cluster.\
\
Kubernetes Deployments are a declarative way to manage and update application replicas in a Kubernetes cluster. In Kubernetes, a Deployment is a higher-level abstraction that provides a way to define and manage the desired state of a set of replica pods. Deployments ensure that the specified number of replicas (instances) of an application is always available and handle updates and rollbacks seamlessly.\
\
Here are the key characteristics and features of Kubernetes Deployments:\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Desired State Specification: \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
Deployments allow you to specify the desired state of your application, including the number of replicas, container images, and other parameters in a declarative manner using YAML or JSON manifests.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \ul Pod Template:
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
A Deployment uses a pod template to define the specifications of the pod instances it manages. This includes container images, resource limits, environment variables, and other configurations.\
\

\f1\b \ul Scalability and High Availability
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
Deployments help ensure high availability by maintaining the specified number of replicas even if a node or pod fails. They also support easy scaling of the application by adjusting the number of replicas.\
\

\f1\b \ul Rolling Updates and Rollbacks:
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
Deployments provide support for rolling updates, allowing you to update the application to a new version while minimizing downtime. If an update causes issues, you can perform rollbacks to a previous known-good version.\
\

\f1\b \ul Revision History
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
Deployments maintain a revision history of the changes made to the application, allowing you to easily track and revert to specific versions if needed.\
\

\f1\b \ul Health Checks and Self-Healing:
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
Deployments can be configured with readiness and liveness probes to monitor the health of the application instances. Kubernetes will automatically remove or recreate unhealthy pods.\

\f1\b \ul \
Immutable Updates:
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
By default, Kubernetes performs immutable updates during rolling updates, meaning that new replicas are created with the updated configuration before old replicas are terminated. This ensures that the application is always available during updates.\
\

\f1\b \ul Paused and Resumed Updates:
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
\
You can pause a Deployment to prevent any further updates from being applied. This is useful, for example, when troubleshooting issues after an update. Updates can later be resumed from where they were paused.\
\
Deployments are one of the primary controllers in Kubernetes, and they are widely used for managing the lifecycle of applications in production environments. They abstract away much of the complexity of managing replicas, scaling, updates, and rollbacks, making it easier to maintain reliable and scalable applications on Kubernetes clusters.}